= OpenAmplify

The OpenAmplify API reads text you supply and returns linguistic data 
explaining and classifying the content. What you do with that analysis is, 
in the fine tradition of APIs and mashups, up to you. Some possibilities 
might include pairing ads with articles, creating rich tag-clouds, or 
monitoring the tone of forum threads.

== Helpful links

* <b>Overview:</b> http://community.openamplify.com/blogs/quickstart/pages/overview.aspx

== Install

  gem install openamplify

== Usage

=== Configure

  OpenAmplify.configure do |config|
    config.api_key     = 'YOUR_API_KEY'

    # default :get
    config.http_method = :post

    # default :xml
    config.output_format = :json

    # default :all
    config.analysis = :topics

    # default :standard
    config.scoring = :todo
  end

Settings can be overriden by the client

  client = OpenAmplify::Client.new(:http_method => :get)


=== Usage

  client = OpenAmplify::Client.new

  text = "After getting the MX1000 laser mouse and the Z-5500 speakers i fell in love with logitech"
  analysis = client.amplify_this(text)
  puts analysis  # default as xml

In case you need a different format, OpenAmplify supports XML, JSON, RDF, CSV.
It can also return the result as a fancy HTML page.

  # assuming you use Nokogiri
  doc = Nokogiri::XML(analysis.to_xml)

  # or you want a JSON
  json = JSON.parse(analysis.to_json)

  # you should really try the pretty formats
  puts analysis.to_pretty
  # or
  puts analysis.to_signals




=== Show the result from OpenAmplify as a Hash

  require 'openamplify'

  API_KEY = "register to get a key"
  client = OpenAmplify::Client.new(:api_key => API_KEY)

  text = "After getting the MX1000 laser mouse and the Z-5500 speakers i fell in love with logitech"
  response = client.analyze_text(text)

  # List all the keys and values returned by OpenAmplify
  response.each do |k, v|
    pp k
    pp v
  end


  # 'response' works like a Hash
  puts response['Topics']

  # or use the shortcuts
  response.top_topics
  response.proper_nouns
  response.locations
  response.domains

=== Output Format

In case you need a different format, OpenAmplify supports XML, JSON, RDF, CSV.
It can also return the result as a fancy HTML page.

  # assuming you use Nokogiri
  doc = Nokogiri::XML(response.to_xml)

  # or you want a JSON
  json = JSON.parse(response.to_json)

  # you should really try the pretty formats
  puts response.to_pretty
  # or
  puts response.to_signals

=== Analysis options

By default, OpenAmplify returns a number of 'signals' about your text.
You can limit the result by setting the 'analysis' option.

The different options and explanations are available at http://community.openamplify.com/blogs/quickstart/pages/overview.aspx

  client = OpenAmplify::Client.new(:api_key => API_KEY, :analysis => 'topics')

  # or if you have a client instance already
  client.analysis = 'topics'

  response = client.analyze_text(text)
  response['Topics']  # => should be another big Hash of key-value pairs
  response['Demographics'] # => nil

=== POST method

By default, GET is used. If you need to analyze lots of text, use POST

  client = OpenAmplify::Client.new(:api_key => API_KEY, :method => :post)

  # or
  client.method = :post
  
=== Request URL

In case you are wondering what the request URL looks like:

  response.request_url

If someday, OpenAmplify decides to change their API URL:

  client.base_url = 'http://newurl'

== Testing
  rake test OPEN_AMPLIFY_KEY=YOUR_KEY
